Minor technicalities

As outlined in the previous post the idea behind the whole project is to give a day-by-day reconstruction of the Flavian War of AD 69 that is slightly dramatized, for want of a better word. This has three important consequences which are covered in this very brief blog entry.

First, the tweets will invariably include material that is to some - or sometimes even to a considerable - degree conjectural, as was already noted in the first post. I will try to cover this in this blog from time to time, explaining the rationale behind certain, well, "conjectural inventions" may be a good term. 

Second, in order to provide a modicum of dramatization, some elements that can be found in present-day news media (such as the seemingly omnipresent "breaking news") will surface in the tweets every now and then. As I noted in the previous post, the new actuarius is slightly more attention-seeking than his predecessor.

And third - and that is the most important implication -, while one purpose of the project is to show how men and material moved throughout the empire and how long that took, communication is exempt from this. Which means that important news will arrive in Rome on the day it happens, with further details sometimes taking a little bit longer. I have to stress that this is a major anachronism - news from the initial proclamation of Vespasian in Egypt will have taken two weeks or more to reach Rome, and even with the Flavians in Northern Italy news still could take a few days to reach the city. Communication was much slower in antiquity, something Vitellius himself must have experienced earlier that same year when his plans for a campaign against Galba were interrupted by the news that his opponent had been killed. It is therefore important to state that the project does **not** try to simulate how fast news actually travelled within in the empire; that may be something for a future project.

Finally, some housekeeping notes. Although the general format is one tweet per day, sometimes two or three are possible as well, depending on the course of events, but I'll try to avoid multi tweet threads. Illustrations may appear now and then if I find time to prepare them, but for most of the time it's text only. About once a week this blog will provide a few notes on the tweets; I'll mostly point towards sources. For reference, the blog entries will also include all tweets of the preceding week or so.
